# php-mem-rec

It is a project that aims to solve Memory profiling tasks for php software, making it easier. 

It is divided into two parts, a CLI command that acts as a Parser and a completely UI webApp.

## The command line tool.

It is a unix like OS compliant script that proccesses memory profiling files generated by Xdebug, right now this information is available by enabling xdebug.trace option in Xdebug config but it is not easy task to use it and manipulate in terms of getting some kind of intelligent information the programmer need without waiting too much time to parse and examine files because current parser are written in php and it is a real iterative heavy work. This is why this solution is designed in AWK, an extremely efficient language to work with streams that comes by default in unix and Linux OS plattforms, It can parse in seconds what it takes 15 minutes to do in php. What it does is parse original xdebug trace files into easy to read new files that can be automatically used by the other half of this project, the web app.

## The web app.

The web app is designed to bring profiling an step further by revealing accurate information about memory consumption per method which it is not present in projects like webgrind. The main aim with this webapp is to deliver an extremely easy to use tool that can represent xdebug data into really valuable information for the programmer interested into achieving memory consumption friendly code or find those buggy memory thristy line on your script.

## Motivation

I have this feeling about that most of us php programmers forgot about computer resources, memory and cpu feels like unlimited things that should not be main concern, If our application needs another server our cloud advanced server will automatically start another machine for us, but should be machines what we really need ? what if our code would take half the memory ? we wouldnt need as many servers, on small scale saving memory could save you those extra GB of RAM you where planning to upgrade on your plan, on big Scale it could mean real savings. 

My freaky message: If man got to moon using less than 1MB RAM why a web page should be allowed to use 30 Mb per request?  

It is also my willing that if you feel by anyhow interested into participating in the project simply do, it is intended to be a collaborative product and all hands will be appreciated.

## License

This software is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details
